good evening youtubers today we have
something that's different for sure
I just got this in the mail today this
is a KO max Seol ma ex model M 400 made
in 1955 and it's the background music
for 45 rpm and as you can see here on
the top this is made primarily of the
aristocrat mechanism modified highly
obviously it has a rather tall spindle
that holds the 45s and I don't know how
many it holes unfortunately I don't have
any literature on that outside of the
service manual that I show you in a
second but it gives no details as to how
many it holds and of course this would
be the weight that sits on those records
to hold them down and there are three
sheaves they are circular sheaves I
believe that drop the records instead of
the usual two that you would normally
see and of course the feeling arm that
is typical of the aristocrats and more
unusual it plays both sides we have a
needle on the top and a needle on the
bottom as well as the brushes that would
clean them so it has the kind of look or
feel that the the Seberg background
music system would have in 16 hour p.m.
but this is obviously in 45 it has an
auto switch and it came with an
amplifier matching amplifier which is
not here all he got was the basic unit
and along with that this would have been
tucked inside obviously this was for use
with the amplifier and of course this
gets plugged into the mechanism inside
here and we also have a manual we have a
service manual for the m400 it's made by
Cole Mac's as I said out of Minnesota
there's very little information to be
found on the internet this ought to be a
very interesting project and I bought
this with the hopes of having this
restored sometime in the future I just
don't have time to play with it now but
I'm definitely going to be working with
Chris cuff 45 player on this here I'm
gonna have him tear it down and together
we'll work on it and I'm going to
repaint it this is black of course and
this is that brown color on the top the
hammertone Brown and I'd like to bring
this as close to to back to where it was
when it was originally made all of this
has to be cleaned up this appears to be
a loom
and as I said a future project if
anybody has any more information on this
I'd be very very very glad to hear from
you if you'd have any literature that'd
be nice if you know how many records
this holds that'd be nice as well as I
said this is kind of rare this is the
first one that's passed through my hands
the first one I've ever seen
I see mention of it on the internet but
it's in passing there's very very little
information on these so there we have it
a future project something that's
different something that you just won't
get to see built in 1955 state-owned is
we continue on later on we'll take and
restore this or hopefully restore it
anyhow we'll see you now